Oh, really?
Arm & Hammer bought it.
Yes.
Well, we've done two hours of tape.
You know that?
We're doing very good.
I'm delighted.
So that's where you were able to do something good for your country as well?
Well, that was unexpected.
No, I come to this.
I mean, that's not to booze.
because I can assure you one thing, and that's for sure, that the books are sold here.
I could have sold them anywhere in the world and probably, I don't say, that's for sure, but probably at that price.
I always had a weak heart for that library because of this one librarian of the Amsterdam University Library.
He was a great, great bookman, and he taught me so much.
He has always supported me.
Did you tell me his name yet?
No, I did not.
But everybody knows him in the book.
No, everybody who knows books knows the history of, let's say, the last 50 years.
And what's his name?
It's a difficult name.
It's a French name.
I mean, it's...
D-E-L-A, it's French name.
That's easy.
F-O-N-T-A-I-N-E.
That's the Dutch part.
V-E-R-W-E-Y.
That's his first name.
Oh, it's De La Fontaine Verwey.
And the first name is Hermann.
So it's Hermann.
Hermann De La Fontaine Verwey.
You also have a name from 1941, I think.
Is there a hyphen between De La Fontaine and Verwey?
It's not De La Fontaine.
Like De La Fontaine, the French writer.
And he was a great librarian here.
He was a great, great librarian.
He was one of the greatest.
What makes sense?
He was a great librarian for Bill Jackson.
He was what again?
The class of Bill Jackson.
Oh, yes.
And other librarians after then.
Urban Liebers.
He is famous.
What makes a great librarian in your view?
What makes a great librarian?
A great librarian.
It's he who
knows what he's buying who knows when to say no but who knows that he has to say yes even if he doesn't have the money so how does he know this is it that is the same
That's the tuition, that's the same thing.
Or his specialty, or whatever.
And those to say... And those to say yes, even if he doesn't have the money.
Even if he doesn't.
I sold books, not only in the first library, in April.
And then he said, Nico, I'm sorry, but I can't pay you before the next year.
And he said, that's okay.
That's okay.
Some idiot who...
So is he still there?
No, no, he died in 1989.
And did he personally, was he responsible for helping build a great collection there?
He built the... Because when I came there, Amsterdam was the center in the 17th century of the atlas and met graves.
And I came and started selling
They missed me all the great entrances.
Here at the center?
At the center.
And he was wise enough and courageous enough and capable of getting money enough to buy them.
And I found them.
And so how would you rank their collection today?
It's the best in the world.
Certainly Amsterdam.
And so you helped make it the best.
Yeah, but I've seen my... I mean, I became, what age was that?
Seventy?
They presented me with a kind of album I'm calling.
Oh, really?
Yeah, I've ever seen it.
I know.
Well, that's very important, because this was the center of the trade.
They should have the great collection here.
The great collection should be here.
Yeah, not only have it, it is... Oh, we need the... Sorry.
We need the manuscript.
Oh, we have it.
What book is this?
That's what I... They call it The Well Assured Bookbinding.
They're well shredded.
Oh, that's wonderful.
If you want, I'll present you with a copy.
Then you don't have to schlep that.
I'll schlep it.
It's important.
You know how the bookman is, right?
It is like a game.
It is provincial, because it is a provincial country.
It is not the world.
But there are some interesting articles in
One of the things I like best, and I'll illustrate probably best, my attitude towards book selling and books and people with this article.
I'm really touched by this.
I'm going to send you a signed first edition of my book, if I may, if you'd like.
Yeah.
I mean, this is one of my dear customers.
Lord Weddington, Orange File.
That's page 495.
I'm telling you the tapes.
I don't know what I've found here, too.
It is.
I mean, this is about what you... what I told you.
Oh, this is very important.
Oh, this is on your 70th birthday.
Oh, that is the old book.
It's in... Yeah, it's very important.
I like very much.
And it's in English, too, which is very important for me.
Oh, look at the people who wrote for this.
This is really huge.
Yeah, this is very important.
Oh, this is great.
An exhibition in the University Library of 70 books, maps, objects.
I saw to any of the Dutch libraries and they found of enough importance to include in this exhibition.
This exhibition here?
No.
This is Lois.
I see.
Okay.
This is a kind of...
Oh, this is a compliment.
I see.
I get it now.
I get it.
I see it.
That's in touch.
Wow.
You're going to let me take one?
You're welcome.
I would be honored and touched, and I would like to reciprocate by sending you a first edition copy of my book, which is now in the sixth printing.
I have your book, but it's in my... It's sold with my business.
Well, you probably didn't have the first edition, though.
It was very scarce.
It disappeared.
The first printing was only... I say, I never wanted to be a British man.
That's absolutely true.
I never had any ambition.
Have you?
No.
I mean, always could live the life that I like to live.
And it's so important to have a good wife.
Yeah, I have a good wife.
My wife supported me.
A book girl, but to be a good publication girl?
I became a book girl.
My wife is the same.
I quit my job to write my book.
I had to... In 1991, when I worked for the newspaper.
In 1991, I figured, I can't do both.
I can't do this and do that kind of stuff.
And so, you know, your wife has to believe in what you're doing.
Let's put it that way.
So it's worked out.
And now I've got a good contract for this book, the book I'm working on now.
because the last one did pretty well.
And they'll be probably the same?
The same people.
And I think I'm going to put on the cover that Dürer engraving, Erasmus of Rotterdam, the famous engraving.
I love that with the books.
And you have something to connect it with.
Yes, because I love it.
I love the engraving.
And it's a Dürer engraving.
And it is European.
It is scholarly.
It is...
He is, in my mind, the first great professional bookman.
He was a writer.
He made a living as a writer.
The first one.
That's right.
It touches a lot of different themes that I'm working on.
Exactly.
You're a good writer.
You're worth something.
So I think we'll do that.
No, but I...
Always like to trade.
I like to trade for three reasons.
The material you're doing is the people and the way of life.
I mean, it's always been a friendly trade so far.
We never considered ourselves to be competitors.
Even our crowds were very competitive.
Competitive, but when we were together, it was always in a friendly way we were dealing with, and at auction, okay, then I'll let you have that one.
In his own one.
But you'd go to the middle of that one.
And things like that, I mean, that's worked out very well.
You have to have these understandings.
And I have been fortunate enough to know, to have known, maybe all the great deals in here,
France, England, Spain, England.
And that was great satisfaction because they were great, great booksellers.
And do you see that tradition continuing today?
Yeah, there are, but less of them.
But there are less books too.
Yeah, in America, some very good young people.
Bill Rees is very interesting.
Bill Rees is very good, yes.
Specialized, very good.
I think I have a man like Richard Lamb, very good.
Richard Lamb, where is he?
He is, Maktayan Lamb is the firm's name, 57th grade.
Oh yes, okay, yes.
Richard Lamb, very good bookseller.
Yeah.
But not like photography.
Better like who?
Not like before, I mean, with your gig sightings and Warren Owls and Krauss and Fleming.
And Fleming, John Fleming.
John Fleming, he used to, like you write in your book, John Fleming was ideal.
He always worked like he was not interested at all.
He always showed that he could easily do without you.
When you came, you were a welcome guest.
Yeah, and then he could sell you a great book.
And when he liked you, he could sell you a great book.
So much the better.
I tell somewhere the story of our books.
One of the great copy that I've seen in my life, and I've had some more.
One of the great books in the world.
The first illustrated books.
He said, come on, John, show me the book.
And then he gave this copy of this, which is notoriously rare, it is in the condition.
And then I asked him, okay, John, now you're done with your prize.
Now, what was the title of the book again?
What was the book?
Oh, okay.
In a fantastic copy.
I said, okay, John, now the prize.
He said, I'm sorry, Nico, but I had to ask you so, so much.
I said, you are a louse to ask you so much, but I'll show you something different.
I'm a louse, too.
I'm going to buy it.
Right, just like that.
How much?
A lot, though.
But it was a lot.
But cheap compared to the pictures today that's coming.
And when you buy a book like this, you don't have a customer in mind.
No, I don't know.
No, you never buy for a fine time.
I never bought for a fine time.
You see, that's different.
Most young booksellers today, they are afraid to... No, but you can't, because with the amounts, the money, you need it to use.
So you never bought with a... No, I've never... No, but sometimes, obviously, but... Better don't... For me, you know, better do not buy books.
It's a special client of mine.
Why, because?
Because generally, the client says no.
That's, I don't know why, but it's actually lucky.
That happened with Lou Feldman, who took $100,000 on the Gutenberg Bible, figuring Texas would buy it.
Good man.
Yeah.
How are you, Lou?
Spent many hours together.
Do you want to get that?
No, no, no.
He was an interesting man.
Now, what did you think of him?
Did you like him?
Oh, yes.
People either liked him or hated him.
Well, that's a long ways.
They don't have to love you.
No.
That's good, yeah.
But there had to be something, somebody.
And he was somebody who felt him.
And then he had, of course, his fantastic lines.
Most millions of dollars.
That's, you know, that only happens once in a lifetime, to get a client like that.
But he did a good job for them.
They have a great... They couldn't have done better.
They couldn't have done better without it.
That was fantastic.
I know, you are so... A great bookseller, a new experience, helped made it well.
I mean, listen, it's not such that a bookseller is...
in such a shared business, that's a lie, that's your lab or death.
It's kind of a game.
A game.
I mean, when buying, you have to outwit the other buyers.
And then when you're selling, you have to persuade the buyer that he's buying the right thing.
And never let the customer down.
That's not an easy thing to do, is it?
Those three things is... No, but that is the game.
That's great.
That is the game.
And you call it a game because it is a game, isn't it?
It is a game.
When it becomes serious, I don't become so dumb.
Maybe the German rare food dealers have something, a lot of that, being over serious.
But after the war, though, when they lost all of their great Jewish booksellers, there were really no great German booksellers for many, many years.
No, he was, like I said, but not exposing himself.
He was into it, as a bookseller, as it is possible.
But he was, no doubt.
There were, I mean, you had Stucat, in Stucat, you had Fritz Eggerts, who was famous in, I don't know, during literature.
But also, we had one great, great customer for, you know, books related to Brazil.
He wrote together, now I was, he sold it.
not familiar now, but Maximilian Prince of Peace.
He was a German prince, much interested in anthropology and ethnography, things like that.